# EVENT MANAGER
#### Video Demo:  <URL HERE>
#### Description:
	This application is a simple event manager for Android, written in JAva, that allows a user to add events to a calendar, receive notifications for those events at different times and allows you to save some data from an event so that you can populate your calendar with common events in the future.

	Launching the application brings up MainActivity, which presents the user with a CalendarView and a FloatingActionButton, as well as initializing the database for Events. One design decision I made early on was to use separate databases for Events and EventTemplates to use in the separate activities for viewing the list of events and loading Templates into events, however later in the development process I decided it was redundant and used more memory than necessary, so I decided to consolidate to one table. I created a column for whether the saved event was to be used as a template and used more logic and conditionals in the program to load the data from the one table into different parts of the program. I added logic to prevent creating duplicate events, prevent saving multiple events as the same template as well as allow for the deletion of an event without removing the template and vice versa, and found it to be a better option than maintaining multiple databases of essentially the same information.
	
	Clicking on a day on the CalendarView launches EventListActivity, where you can view all the events saved to that specific day, sorted by start time. Clicking on the FloatingActionButton launches the NewEventActivity, where you can create an event and add it to the Calendar.
	
	EventListActivity is launched from MainActivity, and is a RecyclerView of all the events from the database that occur on the selected date from the CalendarView, with a FloatingActionButton to launch the AddEventToDay activity. It creates an ItemTouchHelper and attaches it to the recyclerView so that a user can swipe an Event to delete it and update the lsit. The EventListAdapter class loads the Events from the database where the Date column matches the selected date gotten from the Intent, creates & binds the viewholder for each recyclerView item.
	
	If the FloatingActionButton in the EventListActivity is pressed it brings up the AddEventToDay activity, which extends the NewEventActivity, uses the same layout and many of the same methods. The only real difference is that the AddEventToDayActivity is passed the user's selected date and preloads it into the TextView, and does not allow it to be edited.
	
	The NewEventActivity is where a user can enter information about the Event they would like to create. There are EditTexts for the Title and Location, and a Button and TextView each for Date, Start Time and End Time. Clicking these buttons will launch a DatePicker/TimePicker where the user can select the date, start and end times. The user's selection is formatted for consistent entry into the DB and set in the Text areas. The Button for the Alert Type launches a popup menu with a number of selections, and on pressing an option the onMenuOptionClick will run assigning their selection to the alertType variable. There is a toggle to set the boolean for whether the event is saved as a template, and a Button to launch the LoadFromTemplatesActivity, and a button to save the event. Pressing the Save to Calendar button will check to ensure none of the fields are left blank and simply raise an error if that is the case. If all the fields are valid it will check to see if the event already exists, already exists as a template, or exists as an 'orphaned' event in the database that has a date value of NULL, and either raise an error, set the template value of the new event to false, or update the existing orphaned event respectively. Otherwise the event is saved to the database, and a notification is scheduled based on the user's selected Alert Type that wil display the Title, Location, begin/end time and date.
		
	If the user clicks the "Load from Templates" button, the LoadTemplatesActivity launches. Similar to the EventListActivity, it is a recyclerView of all the Events with a template value of true, sorted by start time. On clicking a template in this activity will send that event's data back to the NewEventActivity or AddEventToDayActivity, whichever it was launched from, and those activities will load that data into the corresponding EditTexts/TextViews/Variables when the LoadFromTempaltesActivity returns a RESULT_OK and finishes.
	
	
	The Event class defines the attributes that an Event has for entry in the database. There are Strings for Title, Location, Date, Start Time, End Time, and Alert Type, and a boolean for whether the event is marked as a template. The EventDao class creates the database methods that the application will use for a number of reasons. There are methods to create a new event, update an existing event, delete an event, get an event's ID based on a number of different critera. This last method is used in several pieces of logic to determine if an event already exists in the database. 
	
	The EventDatabase class creates the links the database to the Dao.
	
	The final two classes in the application are the NotificationChannelBuilder, which creates a notification channel for events and is loaded by the application on startup, as well as the NotificationPublisher is given an intent to publish a notification to the system when the notifications are scheduled and will also try to. Loading the notification channel on startup seemed like a good idea to avoid running the same code over and over pointlessly as it would've if I had written it into the part of the application that schedules the notifications.
	
	
	
	
